README.rst, before:

nottoomuch
==========

misc material i use with notmuch mail indexer


introduction
------------

my personal “extensions” around notmuch mail indexer that are too specific
to be added to http://notmuchmail.org/ wiki, with additional scripts
that aren't feasible to be stored to the wiki.

`nottooomuch-addresses <nottoomuch-addresses.rst>`_

branches in this git repo
-------------------------

the **master** branch contains “production quality” files

the **dogfoog** branch is used by me. that has latest “experimental” stuff.
that branch i rebase at will. it can be used by anyone who doesn't get
scared by forced updates. also rebasing work on that may be somewhat more
complicated than with branches whose remote-tracking branch keeps its history.

the **df-yymm-1234567** branches contains dogfood stuff branched from
master, first non-master commit being **1234567**. these will not be
rebased but i remove these branches from time to time (presumably seldom).
these are more rebase-safe than **dogfood**.

----

ps: guess how many
::

  git commit --amend -C HEAD README.rst && git push --force

lines i've executed in **dogfood** branch so far (HEAD commit contained
changes to ``README.rst`` only).

Commit message:

README: reworked branches section. contributing section

README.rst, after:

nottoomuch
==========

misc material i use with notmuch mail indexer


introduction
------------

my personal “extensions” around notmuch mail indexer that are too specific
to be added to http://notmuchmail.org/ wiki, with additional scripts
that aren't feasible to be stored to the wiki.

`nottooomuch-addresses <nottoomuch-addresses.rst>`_

branches in this git repo
-------------------------

master
  “release quality” material

dogfood
  bleeding edge / undocument hacks -- branch i use to run my stuff.
  this branch will get **forced updates** often, either when this branch
  is rebased on top of current master or when i amend this to look how
  the outcome looks from a web browser.

df-yymm-1234567
  the **tree** of these branches are kept in sync with **dogfood** branch
  but the history is not altered. the **1234567** is the commit id of
  first commit in these branches after branching from master; i.e. this
  commit should always be available in the git repository. these branches
  are treated like (long lived) topic-branches -- eventually these will
  go away and replaced with newer ones (less non-master commits).

contributing
------------

if anyone ever desires to contribute to this repo, it is easier to deal
with **master** and **df-yymm-1234567** branches than **dogfood**.
i accept patches in links to commit id, as pull requests and as in
patch emails provided by git-format-patch (and git-send-email).

*too ät iki dot fi*

----

ps: guess how many
::

  git commit --amend -C HEAD README.rst && git push --force

lines i've executed in **dogfood** branch so far (HEAD commit contained
changes to ``README.rst`` only).
